Successful Investing is all about common sense. As the Oracle has said, it 
is simple but it is not easy. Simple arithmetic suggests, and history 
confirms, that the winning strategy is to own all of the nation's 
publicly held businesses at very low cost.

The best way to own all of the nation's publicly held businesses at 
the lowest cost is indeed simple: Buying a fund that holds this market 
portfolio, and holding it forever. Such a fund is called an index 
fund. The index fund is simply a basket (portfolio) that holds many, 
many eggs (stocks) designed to mimic the overall performance of any 
financial market or market sector. 

Classic index funds, by definition, basically represent the entire 
stock market, not just a few scattered eggs. Such funds eliminate the 
risk of individual stocks, the risk of market sectors, and the risk of 
manager selection, with only stock market risk remaining (which is 
quite large enough, thank you). Index funds make up for their 
short-term lack of excitement by their truly exciting long term 
productivity.

Index funds eliminate the risks of individual stocks, market sections, 
and manager selection. Only stock market risk remains.

When you understand how our financial markets actually work, you will 
see that the index fund is indeed the only investment that guarantees 
you will capture your fair share of the returns that business earns. 
Thanks to the miracle of compounding, the accumulations of wealth over 
the years generated by those returns have been little short of 
fantastic.

Keep in mind that an index fund may also be constructed around bonds 
and the bond market, or even "road less traveled" asset classes such 
as commodities or real state. Today if you wish you could literally 
hold all of your wealth in a diversified set of index funds 
representing asset classes within the United States or the global 
economy.

I'm speaking here about the classic index fund, one that is broadly 
diversified, holding all (or almost all) of its share of the $15 
trillion capitalization of the U.S. stock market, operating with 
minimal expenses and without advisory fees, with tiny portfolio 
turnover, and with high tax efficiency. 

The index fund simply owns corporate America, buying an interest in 
each stock in the stock market in proportion to its market 
capitalization and then holding it forever.

The costs of playing the investment game both reduce the gains of the 
winners and increases the losses of the losers. So who wins? You know 
who wins. The man in the middle (actually the men and woman in the 
middle, the brokers, the investment bankers, the money managers, the 
marketers the lawyers, the accountants, the operations departments of our 
financial system) is the only sure winner in the game of investing.

After the deduction of the costs of investing, beating the stock 
market is a loser's game.

Yes after the costs of financial intermediation - all those brokerage 
commissions, portfolio transaction costs, and fund operating expenses; 
all those investment management fees; all those advertising dollars 
and all those marketing schemes; and all those legal costs and 
custodial fees that we pay, day after day and year after year - beating 
the market is inevitably a game for losers.

No matter how many books are published and promoted purporting to show 
how easy it is to win, investors fall short. Indeed, when we add the 
costs of these self-help investment books into the equation, it 
becomes even more of a loser's game.

Most investors in stocks think they can avoid the pitfalls of 
investing by due diligence and knowledge, trading stocks with alacrity 
to stay one step ahead of the game. But while the investors who trade 
the least have a fighting chance of capturing the market's return 
those who trade the most are doomed for failure.

Fund investors are confident that they can easily select superior fund 
managers. They are wrong.

Contrarily, for those who invest and then drop out of the game and 
never pay a single unnecessary cost, the odds in favor of success are 
awesome. Why? simply because they own businesses, and businesses as a 
group earn substantial returns on their capital and pay out dividends 
to their owners.

The driving dream (of the idealist) is that if he could only explain 
things to enough people, carefully enough, thoughtfully enough - why, 
eventually everyone would see, and the everything would be fixed.

You should play the winner's game of owning businesses and refrain from 
playing the loser's game of trying to beat the market.
 
you can begin the the task of investing simply by using your own common 
sense, understanding the system, and investing in accordance with the 
only principles that will eliminate substantially all of its excessive 
costs.

The general systems of money management [today] require people to 
pretend to do something they can't do and like something they don't. 
[It's] a funny business because on a net basis, the whole investment 
management business together gives no value added to all buyers 
combined. That's the way it has to work. Mutual funds charge two 
percent per year and then brokers switch people between funds, costing 
another three to four percentage points. The poor Guy in the general 
public is getting a terrible product from the professionals. I think 
it's disgusting. It's much better to be part of a system that delivers 
value to the people who buy the product (Charlie Munger).

It's bad enough that you have to take market risk. Onlya fool takes on 
the additional risk of doing yet more damage by failing to diversify 
properly with his or her nest egg. Avoid the problem - buy a well-run 
index fund and own the whole market (William Bernstein)

The truth is that, for the most part, fund managers have offered 
extremely poor value for money. Their records of out-performance are 
almost always followed by stretches of under-performance. Over long 
periods of time, hardly any fund managers have beaten the market 
averages. They encourage investors, rather than spread their risks 
wisely or seek the best match for their future liabilities, to put 
their money into the most modish assets going, often just when they 
become overvalued. And all the while they charge their clients big 
fees for the privilege of losing their money (The economist).

You will almost never find a fund manager who can repeatedly beat the 
market. It is better to invest in an indexed fund that promises a 
market return but with significantly lower fees (The economist).

It's really amazing the so many giants of academe and many of the 
world's greatest investors, known for beating the market, confirm and 
applaud the virtues of index investing. May their common sense, 
perhaps even more than my own, make you all wiser investors.

For investors as a whole, returns decrease as motion increases.

The way to wealth for those in the business is to persuade their 
clients, "Don't just stand there. Do something." But the way to wealth 
for their clients in the aggregate is to follow the opposite maxim: 
"Don't do something. Just stand there." For that is the only way to 
avoid the loser's game of trying to beat the market. 

When any business is conducted in a way that directly defies the 
interests of its clients in the aggregate, it is only a matter of time 
until change comes.

The higher the level of their investment activity, the greater the 
cost of financial intermediation and taxes, the less the net return 
that the business owners as a group receive. 

The lower the costs that investors as a group incur, the higher the 
rewards they reap.

To realize the winning returns generated by businesses over the long 
term, the intelligent investor will minimize to the bare bones the costs 
of financial intermediation. That's what indexing is all about.

Most people think they can find managers who can outperform, but most 
people are wrong. I will say that 85 to 90 percent of managers fail to 
match their benchmarks (Jack R. Meyer). 

Because managers have fees and incur transaction costs, you know that 
in the aggregate they are deleting value (Jack R. Meyer). 

First, get diversified. Come up with a portfolio that covers a lot of 
asset classes. Second, you want to keep you fees low. That means 
avoiding the most hyped but expensive funds, in favor of low-cost 
index funds. And finally, invest for the long term. [Investors] should 
simply have index funds to keep their fees low and their taxes down. 
Now doubt about it (Jack R. Meyer).

Active management as a whole cannot achieve gross returns exceeding 
the market as a while and therefore they mus, on average, under-perform 
the indexes by the amount of these expense and transaction costs 
disadvantages (Burton G. Malkiel).

Experience conclusively shows that index-fund buyers are likely to 
obtain results exceeding those of the typical fund manager, whose 
large advisory fees and substantial portfolio turnover tend to reduce 
investment yields (Burton G. Malkiel).

The index fund is a sensible, serviceable method for obtaining the 
market's rate of return with absolutely no effort and minimal expense 
(Burton G. Malkiel).

The most the owners in the aggregate can earn between now and Judgment 
Day is what their business in the aggregate earns.

Over time, the aggregate gains made by the shareholders must of 
necessity match the business gains of the company.

We can measure "investor's emotions" by the price/earnings (P/E) 
ratio, which measures the number of dollars investors are willing to 
pay for each dollar of earnings.

When greed holds sway, we see very high P/Es. When hope prevails, P/Es 
are moderate. When fear is in the saddle, P/Es are very low.

It is dangerous... to apply to the future inductive arguments based on 
past experience.

While the prices we pay for stocks often lose touch with the reality 
of corporate values, in the long run, reality rules.

I divide stock market returns into two parts: (1) Investment Return 
(enterprise), consisting of the initial dividend yield on stocks plus 
their subsequent earnings growth, which together form the essence of 
what we call "intrinsic value"; and (2) Speculative Return, the 
impact of changing price/earnings (emotions) multiples on stock prices.

Despite the huge impact of speculative return-up and down-during most 
of the individual decades, there is virtually no impact over the long 
term.

The message is clear: in the long run stock returns depend almost 
entirely on the reality of the investment returns earned by our 
corporations. The perception of investors, reflected by the 
speculative returns, counts for little. 

It is economics that controls long-term equity returns; emotions, so 
dominant in the short-term, dissolve.

Accurately forecasting swings in investor emotions is not possible. 
But forecasting the long-term economics of investing carries 
remarkably high odds of success.

After more than 55 years in this business, I have absolutely no idea 
how to forecast swings in investors emotions. And I am not alone, I 
don't know anyone who has done so successfully, or even anyone who 
knows anyone who has done so. In fact, 70 years of financial research 
show that no one has done so.

It is investment returns - the earnings and dividends generated by the 
American Business - that are almost entirely responsible for the 
returns delivered in our stock market.

While illusion (the momentary prices we pay for stocks) often loses 
touch with reality (the intrinsic values of our corporations), in the 
long run it is reality that rules.

The stock market is a giant distraction.

The expectations market is not only a product of the expectations of 
active investors but the expectations of active speculators, trying to 
guess what these investors will expect, and how they will act as each 
new bit of information finds its way into the marketplace. The 
expectation market is about speculation. The real market is about 
investing.

The stock market is a giant distraction that causes investors to focus 
on transitory and volatile investment expectations rather than on what 
is really important - the gradual accumulation of the returns earned 
by Corporate business.

My advice to investors is to ignore the short-term noise of the 
emotions reflected in our financial markets and focus on the 
productive long-term economics of our corporate businesses.

The way to investment success is to get out of the expectations market 
of stock prices and cast your lot with the real market of business.

In the short run, the stock market is a voting machine, i the long run 
is is a weighing machine (Benjamin Graham).

The investors with a portfolio of sound stocks should expect their 
prices to fluctuate and should neither be concerned by sizable 
declines nor become excited by sizable advances. He should always 
remember that market quotations are there for his convenience, either 
to be taken advantage of or to be ignored (Benjamin Graham).

Most of the time you will be wiser to form your own ideas of the value 
of your holdings. The true investor will do better if he forgets about 
the stock market and pays attention to his dividend returns and to the 
operating results of his companies.

How do you cast your lot with business? Simple by busying a portfolio 
that own the shares of every business in the United States and then 
holding it forever. It is a simple concept that guarantees you will win 
the investment game played by most other investors who - as a group - 
are guaranteed to lose.

Please don't equate simplicity with stupidity. 

When there are multiple solutions to a problem, choose the simplest 
one (Occam's Razor).

The returns earned by the publicly held corporations that compose the 
stock market must of necessity equal the aggregate gross returns by 
all investors as group.

The net returns earned by speculative investors must of necessity fall 
short of the aggregate market returns by the amount of intermediation 
costs they incur.

While owning the stock market over the long term is a winner's game, 
beating the stock market is a loser's game.

Consistency matters. A fund that is good or very good in the vast 
majority of years produces a far larger long-term return than a fund 
that is superb in half the years and a disaster in the remaining half.

Owning American business through a broadly diversified index fund is 
not only logical but to say the least, incredibly productive.

Instead of joining the crowd of investors who dabble in complex 
machinations to pick stocks and try to outguess the stock market (two 
inevitably fruitless tasks for investors in the aggregate), choose the 
simplest of all solutions - buy and hold the market portfolio.

All investors as a group must necessarily earn precisely the market return, 
but only before the costs of investing are deducted.

After subtracting the costs of financial intermediations - all those 
management fees, all those brokerage commissions, all those sales 
loads, all those advertising costs, all those operating costs - the 
returns of investors as a group must, and will, and do fall short of 
the market return by an amount precisely equal to the aggregate amount 
of those costs.

There are these two certainties: (1) Beating the market before costs 
is a zero-sum game; (2) Beating the market after costs is a loser's 
game.

The curious fact is that most investors seem to have difficulty 
recognizing what lies in plain sight, right before their eyes. Or, 
perhaps even more pervasively, the refuse to recognize the reality 
because it flies in the face of their deep-seated beliefs, biases, 
overconfidence, and uncritical acceptance of that way that financial 
markets have worked, seemingly forever.

Our system of financial intermediation has created enormous fortunes 
for those in the field of managing other people's money. Their 
self-interest will not soon change. But as an investor, you must look 
after you self-interest. Only by facing the obvious realities of 
investing can the intelligent investor succeed.

In the investment field, time don't heal all wounds. It makes them 
worse. Where returns are concerned, time is your friend. But where 
costs are concerned, time is your enemy.

Over the long term, the miracle of compounding returns is overwhelmed by 
the tyranny of compounding costs.

Never forget: Market return, minus costs, equals investor return.

Yes, costs matter! Indeed, costs make the difference between 
investment success and investment failure.

In short, the humble arithmetic of investing - the logical inevitable, 
and unwieldy penalty assessed by investment costs and rising living 
costs - has devastated the returns earned by mutual fund investors.

The index fund is there to guarantee that you will earn your fair 
share of whatever returns our businesses earn and our stock market 
delivers.

Money flows into most funds after good performance, and goes out when 
bad performance follows.

Whatever the precise data, the evidence is compelling that equity fund 
returns lag the stock market by a substantial amount, largely 
accounted for by their costs, and that fund investor returns lag fund 
returns by an even larger amount.

Inflamed by heady optimism and greed, and enticed by the whiles of 
mutual fund marketers, investors poured their savings into equity 
funds at the bull market peak.

When ever-counterproductive investor emotions are played on by 
ever-counterproductive fund industry promotions, little good is apt to 
result.

Fund investors have been chasing past performance since time eternal, 
allowing their emotions - perhaps even their greed - to overwhelm 
their reason. But the fund industry itself has played on these 
emotions, bringing out new funds to meet the fads and fashions of the 
day, often supercharged and speculative, and then aggressively 
advertising and marketing them. It is fair to say that little good is 
apt to result.

The fund industry will not soon give up its promotions. But the 
intelligent investor will be well advised to minimize its expenses and 
get the emotions out of the equation.

The beauty of the index fund, lies not only in its low expenses, but 
in its elimination of all those tempting fund choices that promise so 
much and deliver so little. Plus unlike the hot funds of the day, the 
index fund can be held through thick and thin for an investment lifetime, 
and emotions need never enter the equation.

The greatest enemies of the equity investors are Expenses and Emotions 
(Warren Buffett).

Taxes are costs, too. Don't pay Uncle Sam any more than you should.

The fact is that most managed mutual funds are astonishingly 
tax-inefficient, a result of the short term focus of their portfolio 
mangers, usually frenetic traders of the stocks in the portfolios they 
supervise.

Managed mutual funds are often astonishingly tax-inefficient.

This pattern of tax-inefficiency for active managers seems destined to 
continue as long as (1) stocks rise, and (2) fund managers continue 
their hyperactive patterns of short-term trading. 

Let's be clear: Most fund managers, once focused on long-term 
investment, are now focused on short-term speculation.

The index fund investor would be subject to taxes on any gains 
realized when liquidating shares.

Fund returns are devastated by costs, taxes, and inflation.

When we pay our fund costs in "current" dollars, year after year - and 
that's exactly how we pay our fund expenses and our taxes on fund 
capital gains (often realized on a short-term basis, to boot) - and 
yet accumulate our assets only in "real dollars", eroded by the 
relentless rise in the cost of living that seems embedded in our 
economy, the results are devastating. It is truly remarkable - and 
hardly praise-worthy - that this information is virtually ignored in 
the information that fund managers provide to fund investors.

While the index fund is remarkable tax efficient in managing capital 
gains, it turns out to be relatively tax-inefficient in distributing 
dividend income.

Fund operating costs and fees confiscate fully 80 percent of its 
dividend income, a sad reaffirmation of the eternal position of fund 
investors at the bottom of the mutual fund food chain.

The expense ratio of a low-cost index fund is less or equal to about 
0.15 percent.

The wise investor will seek the dividend "tax-inefficiency" of the 
index fund dividend rather than the "tax-efficiency" of most actively 
managed funds engendered by their confiscatory operating costs.

Mutual funds have failed to manage their realized capital gains in 
such a way as to permit a substantial deferral of taxes (raising) 
investors' tax bills considerably (John Shoven, Joel Dickson).

Taxes are a crucially important financial consideration because the 
earlier realization of capital gains will substantially reduce net 
returns (Dr. Malkiel). 

Index funds do not trade from security to security and, thus, they 
tend to avoid capital gains taxes (Dr. Malkiel). 

In the long run it is the reality of business - the dividend yields 
and earnings growth of corporations - that drives the returns 
generated by the stock market.

Recall that the century-plus nominal investment return earned by 
stocks was 9.5 percent, consisting of an average dividend yield of 4.5 
percent and average annual earnings growth of 5.0 percent.

Remember early in 2000, the P/E ratio had actually risen to an 
astonishing 32 times, only to plummet to 18 times as the new economy 
bubble burst.

To calculate the return for the average actively managed equity mutual 
fund (assuming 7 percent rational future stock market returns), simply 
remember the humble arithmetic of fund investing: nominal market 
return, minus investment costs, minus taxes (reduced to reflect lower 
capital gains realization), minus an assumed inflation rate of 2.3 
percent (the rate the financial markets are now expecting over the 
coming decade), equals just 1.4 percent per year. This goes to say 
that it is truly important to minimize costs.

In a likely future environment of lower returns on equities, the 
low-cost tax-efficient index fund would provide even higher real 
returns relative to actively managed equity funds.

Unless the fund industry begins to change, the typical actively 
managed fund appears to be a singularly unfortunate investment choice.

Unless the fund industry begins to change - by reducing management 
fees, operating expenses, sales charges, and portfolio turnover, with 
its attendant costs - the typical actively managed fund appears to be 
a singularly unfortunate choice for investors.

Select long-term winners; don't look for the needle - buy the haystack.

Selecting winning funds in advance is more difficult than it looks. 
Sure, there are always some winners that survive over the years. And 
if we pore over the records of past performance, it is easy to find 
them. But easy as it is to identify past winners, there is little 
evidence that such performance persists in the future.

Easy as it is to identify past winners, there is little evidence that 
such performance persists in the future.

Even funds with solid long-term records go out of business. Often, 
their management companies are acquired by marketing companies whose 
ambitious executives conclude that, however good the fund's early 
records, they are not exciting enough to draw huge amounts of capital 
from new investors. In their minds, their funds have simply outlived 
their usefulness.

As Warren Buffett reminds us, "a fat wallet is the enemy of superior 
returns."

Only three out of the 355 equity funds that started the race in 1970 - 
8/10 of 1 percent - have survived and mounted a record of sustained 
excellence.

The odds in favor of owning a consistently successful equity fund are 
less than one out of a hundred. However one slices the data, there can 
be no question that funds with long-serving portfolio managers and 
records of consistent excellence are the exception rather than the 
rule in the mutual fund industry.

The simple fact is that selecting a mutual fund that will outpace the 
stock market over the long term is, using Cervantes' wonderful 
observation, like "looking for a needle in a haystack".

Funds with long-serving portfolio managers and records of consistent 
excellence are the exception rather than the rule in the mutual fund 
industry.

In fund performance, the past is rarely a prologue.

"Can you pick the winners?" The answer: "Even fans of actively managed 
funds often concede that most other investors would be better off in 
index funds" (Jonathan Clements). 

Picking the best-performing funds is "like trying to predict the dice 
before you roll them down the craps table".

Still, I figure we shouldn't discourage fans of actively managed 
funds. With all their buying and selling, active investors ensure the 
market is reasonable efficient. That makes it possible for the rest of 
us to do the sensible thing, which is to index.

To build a well-diversified portfolio, you might stash 70 percent of 
your stock portfolio into a (Dow Jones) Wilshire 500-index fund and 
the remaining 30 percent in an international-index fund.

In every mutual fund prospectus, in every sales promotional folder, 
and in every mutual fund advertisement (albeit in print almost too 
small to read), the following warning appears: "Past performance is no 
guarantee of future results." Believe it!

In selecting mutual funds, most fund investors seem to rely, not on 
sustained performance over the long term, but on exciting performance 
over the short term.

The message is clear: Avoid performance chasing based on short-term 
returns, specially during great bull markets.

Winning performance by a mutual fund is unlikely to be repeated.

While "the first can be first" sometimes, the first can be last at 
other times, a wonderful illustration of the inevitable randomness of 
fund performance.

The message is clear: reversion to the mean (RTM) - in this case, the 
tendency of funds whose records substantially exceed industry norms to 
return to average or below - is alive and well in the mutual fund 
industry.

In stock market blow-offs "the first shall be last." But in more 
typical environments, reversion to the fund mean is the rule.

Please remember that the starts produced by the mutual fund field are 
rarely stars; all too often they are comets, lighting up the firmament 
for a brief moment in time and then flaming out, their ashes floating 
gently to earth.

With each passing year, the reality is increasingly clear. Fund 
returns seems to be random. Yes, there are rare cases where skill 
seems to be involved, but it would require decades to determine how 
much of a fund's success can be attributed to luck, and how much 
attributed to skill.

In short, selecting mutual funds on the basis of short-term 
performance is all too likely to be hazardous duty, and it is almost 
always destined to produce returns that fall far short of those 
achieved by the stock market, itself so easily achievable through an 
index fund.

Seeking advice to select funds? Look before you leap.

Selecting winning equity funds over the long term bears all the 
potential success of looking for a needle in a haystack.

Selecting winning funds based on their performance over relatively 
short-term periods in the past is all too likely to lead, if not to 
disaster, at least to disappointment.

Average return of funds recommended by advisers: 2.9 percent per year. 
For equity funds purchased directly: 6.6 percent.

Not surprisingly: the best time to sell a new fund to investors - when 
it's hot - is often the worst time to buy it.

Two new Merrill Lynch funds; a marketing success for the firm; an 
utter failure for the clients.

The $2 billion marketing success of the Merrill Lynch Internet 
Strategies fund and Focus Twenty fund was an utter failure for their 
clients, who lost some 80 percent of their hard-earned savings.

The New York Times contest: Funds chosen by advisers earned 40 percent 
less than an index fund.

I endorse the idea that for many - indeed, most - investors, financial 
advisers may provide a valuable service in giving you peace of mind, 
in helping you establish a sensible fund portfolio that matches your 
appetite for reward and your tolerance for risk, and in helping you 
stay the course in troubled waters. But the evidence so far strongly 
confirms that, vital as those services may be, advisers as a group 
cannot be credibly relied on to add value by selecting winning funds for 
you.

You can outperform more than 80 percent of your fellow investors over 
the next several decades simply by investing in an index fund - and 
doing nothing else.

Index funds endure, while most advisers and funds do not.

Be sure to balance the worth of the peripheral services that advisers 
provide against the reduction in your returns that those fees are 
likely to represent over time.

Look with particular favor on advisers who recommend stock and bond 
index funds in their model portfolio.

You will want to ensure that your adviser is choosing your investments 
purely on their investment merit and not on the basis of how the 
vehicles reward him (William Bernstein).

The best, and only, way to make sure that you and your adviser are on 
the same team is to make sure that he is "fee-only", that is, that he 
receives no remuneration from any other source besides you (William 
Bernstein).

It is simply not worth paying anybody more than 1 percent to manage 
your money. Above $1 million, you should be paying no more than 0.75 
percent and above $5 million, no more than 0.5 percent (William 
Bernstein).

Your adviser should use index/passive stock funds wherever possible. 
If he tells you that he is able to find managers who can beat the 
indexes, he is fooling you both and himself (William Bernstein).

I refer to a commitment to passive indexing as "asset-class religion". 
Don't hire anyone without it (William Bernstein).

Focus on the lowest cost funds.

The more the managers take, the less the investors make.

You can be more successful in selecting winning funds by focusing, not 
on the inevitable evanescence of past performance, but on something 
that seems to go on forever or, more fairly, a factor that has 
persisted over all the fund industry's long history. That factor is 
the costs of owning mutual funds. Costs go on forever.

Common sense tells us that performance comes and goes, but costs go on 
forever.

Rule of thumb: turnover costs normally equal 1 percent of the turnover 
rate.

Costs account for most of the difference in the annual net returns 
earned by the funds.

Step by step, as costs increase, so does risk.

"Fishing in the low-cost pond" should enhance your returns, and by a 
wide margin at that. Again, yes costs matter!

If investors could rely on only a single factor to select future 
superior performers and to avoid future inferior performer, it would be 
fund costs.

More often than not, aiming for benchmark-matching returns through 
index funds assures shareholders of a better-than-average chance of 
outperforming the typical managed stock or bond portfolio (Tyler 
Mathisen).

Indexing should form the core of most investor's fund portfolios 
(Tyler Mathisen).

If low costs are good (and I don't think a single analyst, academic, 
or industry expert would disagree that low costs are good), why 
wouldn't it be logical to focus on the lowest-cost funds of all - 
index funds that own the entire stock market?

Index funds carry expense ratios as low as 0.10 percent or even less, 
and incur turnover costs that turn out to be zero.

Index funds deserve an important place in your portfolio.

What the index fund has going for it is, as I have often said, "the 
magic of simplicity in an empire of parsimony".

My conclusions about the market returns we can expect in the years 
ahead, as well as my conclusions about the share of those returns that 
funds will capture, and the share of those returns that we investors 
will actually enjoy, have on thing in common: They rely, not on 
opinion, but largely on mathematical facts - the relentless rules of 
humble arithmetic that make selecting winning funds rather like 
looking for a needle in a haystack. You ignore these rules at your 
peril.

If the road to investment success is filled with dangerous turns and 
giant potholes, never forget that simple arithmetic can enable you to 
moderate those turns and avoid those potholes. 

So do your best to diversify to the nth degree; minimize your 
investment expenses; and focus your emotions where they cannot wreak 
the kind of havoc that most other people experience in their 
investment programs.

Rely on your own common sense. Emphasize all-stock-market index funds.

Carefully consider your risk tolerance and the portion of your 
investments you allocate to equities. Then stay the course.

The wise investor will select only those index funds that are 
available without sales loads, and those operating with the lowest 
costs. These costs - no surprise here! - are directly related to the 
net returns delivered to the shareholders of these funds.

While cost differentials may look trivial when expressed on an annual 
basis, compounded over the years they make the difference between 
investment success and failure.

"All index funds are not created equal". Intelligent investors will 
select the lowest cost index funds that are available from reputable 
fund organizations.

Your index fund should not be your manager's cash cow. It should be 
your own cash cow.

By carefully selecting the lowest cost index funds for your portfolio, 
you can be sure that the fund is not the manager's cash cow, but your 
own.

Indexing is the winning strategy.

In inefficient markets, the most successful managers may achieve 
unusually large returns. But common sense tells us that for each big 
success, there must also be a big failure.

In inefficient markets, the most successful managers may achieve 
unusually large returns. But never forget that, as a group, all 
investors in any discrete segment of the stock market must be, and 
are, average. Common sense tells us that for each big success. there 
must also be a big failure.

Even in inefficient market segments, index funds, with their tiny 
costs, win again.

While investing in particular market sectors is done most efficiently 
through index funds, betting on the winning sectors is exactly that: 
betting. But betting is a loser's game. Why? Largely because emotions 
are almost certain to have a powerful negative impact on the returns 
that investors achieve.

There is abundant evidence that the most popular sector funds of the 
day are those that have recently enjoyed the most spectacular recent 
performance. As a result after-the-fact popularity is a recipe for 
unsuccessful investing.

Indexing stock market sectors, a strong idea. Betting on stock market 
sectors, a weak reality.

It may not be as exciting, but owing the classic stock market index 
fund is the ultimate strategy. It holds the mathematical certainty 
that marks it as the gold standard in investing, for try as they 
might, the alchemists of active management cannot turn their own lead, 
copper, or iron into gold.

Just avoid complexity, rely on simplicity, take costs out of the 
equation and trust the arithmetic.

The relentless rules of humble arithmetic with which I've regaled you 
also apply - arguably even more forcefully - to bond funds and money 
market funds.

While a seemingly infinite number of factors influence the stock 
market and each individual stock that is traded there, a single factor 
influences the bond market and the money market (and for that matter, 
each individual fixed-income security) far more than any other; the 
prevailing level of interest rates.

If you think that picking stocks and timing their purchase is hard, 
just imagine how hard it is to execute the same strategies 
successfully in the incredibly efficient precincts of the bond market.

Since stocks represent the residual ownership (or equity) of 
corporations, in general the word safety is not usually associated with 
them.

Unlike bonds, stocks can't default. Bonds, on the other hand, 
represent debt. If the payments of interest that corporations and 
governments promise to make every six months are threatened, their 
ratings will be downgraded and the market value of their bonds 
reduced. And if they finally fail to make the promised payments, they 
enter bankruptcy proceedings. 

Where bonds are concerned, Brandeis's warning becomes particularly 
meaningful: "Remember, O stranger, arithmetic is the first of the 
sciences and the mother of safety".

Among intermediate-term taxable bond funds, the low-cost index fund is 
truly a superior performer.

While the actively managed bond funds as a group have earned a lower 
gross return than either the index fund or the index, it is relative 
cost that proved to be the principal differentiator in net return.

Among intermediate-term taxable bond funds, in terms of maximizing 
your return and minimizing your risk, the low-cost index fund is truly 
a superior performer.

Always avoid bond funds with sales loads (a typical 5 percent load 
would obliterate your entire yield for the first year).

Among long-term tax-exempt bond funds, once again, indexing wins.

With low costs, broad diversification, and no serious attempt to 
outguess the market in long-term tax-exempt bond funds, once again 
indexing wins.

Among short-term Treasury Funds, the lowest cost option (indexing) 
wins again.

Among money market funds - surprise! - low cost (indexing) wins again.

Money market funds can be thought of as very short-term bond funds 
with uniformly high credit quality. Federal regulations limit money 
market funds to high-grade commercial and bank paper, and as a 
practical matter limit maturities to a very short term (about 60 
days), to maintain a stable asset value of $1.00 per share.

Unlike bank savings accounts, money market funds are not guaranteed by 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Money market funds and saving accounts hold portfolios with generally 
similar quality (though a bit of "stretching" for yield often goes on) 
and very short maturity (usually averaging about 40 days). As a 
result, they tend to earn substantially identical gross yields on their 
portfolios.

With their short maturities, extremely high credit quality, and 
broadly diversified portfolios, money market funds essentially become 
commodities. Thus, when all else is equal (as it is here), relative 
performance is determined by relative costs. So even more than in 
stock index funds and bond index funds, cost tells virtually the 
entire story in money market funds.

Why would investors pay more than a 0.50 percent annual cost for a 
money market fund? The answer is beyond me. (They should probably have 
their heads examined).

Intelligent investors don't need to fail. If you avoid those high-cost 
money market funds in favor of low-cost funds, you inevitably earn 
superior results.

I realize full well that investors are far more focused on equity 
funds and the stock market than on fixed-income funds. Nonetheless, 
smart investors will save themselves lots of money - and substantially 
improve their returns - if they apply the same principles of broad 
diversification, low-cost, no-load, minimal turnover, and long-term 
investing when they select fixed income funds. These are the very 
commonsense characteristics that enable index funds to guarantee your 
fair share of the returns in the bond market and money markets, even 
as they do in all financial markets.

The miracle, as it were, of the index fund, is simple arithmetic. By 
minimizing all those costs of investing, it guarantees that its 
participants will earn higher net returns than all the other 
participants in stock ownership as a group. This is the only approach 
to equity investment that can guarantee such an outcome.

The only way to beat the market portfolio is to depart from the market 
portfolio. And this is what active managers strive to do, 
individually. But collectively, they can't succeed. For their trading 
merely shifts ownership from one holder to another.

All that swapping of stock certificates back and forth, however it may 
work out for a given buyer or seller, enriches only our financial 
intermediaries.

The active money manager, often, puts forth this argument. "I'm 
smarter than the others in the market. I can discover undervalued 
stocks, and when the market discovers them and they rise in price I'll 
sell them. Then I'll discover other undervalued stocks and repeat the 
process all over again. I know that the stock market is highly 
efficient, but through my intelligence, my expert analysts, my 
computer programs, and my trading strategies, I can spot temporary 
inefficiencies and capture them, over and over again".

Hope springs eternal among money managers, they strive for 
excellence and of course, they believe in themselves (This fields has 
few shrinking violets!). But they also have a vested financial interest 
in persuading investors that if the have done well in the past they 
will continue to do so in the future. And if they haven't done well 
in the past, well, better days are always ahead.

The central issue remains: how can one claim that the past will be 
prologue without a scintilla of apparent doubt? The new "paradigmists" 
have never explained why these fundamental factors have been 
systematically under-priced, why investors, hungry to capitalize on 
that apparent past inefficiency, won't bid up prices until the 
undervaluation no longer remains. Put another way, if these promoters 
of the purported new paradigms actually have been right in the past, 
won't they therefore be wrong in the future (for the market players will 
strive to exploit these inefficiencies).

These new index managers are in fact active managers.

I recommend skepticism. I have always been impressed by the inexorable 
tendency for reversion to the mean in security returns.

Never think you know more than the market. Nobody does.

We never know when the reversion to the mean will come to the various 
sectors of the stock market. With so much of the stock market's 
volatility based on expectations (emotions) rather than business 
(economics), what else could we expect?
 
There have been many new paradigms over the years. None has persisted.

Intelligent investors should approach with extreme caution a claim that 
any new paradigm is here to stay. That's not the way financial markets 
work.

"The greatest enemy of a good plan is the dream of a perfect plan". 
Stick to the good plan.

Traditional all-market-cap-weighted index funds guarantee that you 
will receive your fair share of stock market returns, and virtually 
assure that you will outperform, over the long term, 90 percent or 
more of the other investors in the marketplace. 

Maybe this new paradigm of fundamental indexing - unlike all the other 
new paradigms I've seen - will work. But maybe it won't. I urge 
investors not to be tempted by the siren song of paradigms that 
promise the accumulation of wealth that will be far beyond the rewards 
of the classic index funds.

Don't forget the prophetic warning of Carl von Clausewitz, military 
theorist and Prussian general of the early nineteenth century, "The 
greatest enemy of a good plan is the dream of a perfect plan". Put 
your dreaming away, pull out your common sense, and stick to the good 
plan represented by the classic index fund.

I am amazed by all managers that make an assertion of the type: "in the 
long run X always wins" where X could be dividend yield, earnings 
growth, quality of management, a quantitative factor or mix of 
factors, etc. - yet are unable to cite a reason why X should be 
systematically under-priced by the efficient market. The managers may 
be able to point to data suggesting that X has been associated with 
excess returns in the past, but without a plausible explanation of 
"why" X should outperform. Such data do not convince me that X is 
likely to outperform in the future (John R. Minahan).

Hindsight plays tricks on our minds. It often distorts the past and 
encourages us to play hunches and outguess other investors, who in 
turn are playing the same game(Jeremy J. Siegel).

For most of us, trying to beat the market leads to disastrous results, 
our actions lead to much lower returns that can be achieved by just 
staying in the market, matching the market year after year with index 
funds.

All-stock-market ETFs are the only instance in which an ETF can 
replicate, and possibly even improve on, some of the characteristics 
of the index fund. But only when they are bought and held for the 
long-term.

I can't help likening the ETF - a cleverly designed financial 
instrument - to the renowned Purdey shotgun, supposedly the world's 
best. It's great for big-game hunting in Africa. But it's also 
excellent for suicide.

I suspect that too many ETFs will prove, if not suicidal to their 
owners in financial terms, at least wealth-depleting.

Specialized or sector ETFs are diversified, but only in their narrow 
arenas. Owning the semiconductor industry is not diversification in 
any usual sense, nor is owning the South Korean stock market.  

While sector ETFs frequently have the lowest expense ratios in their 
fields, they can run three to six times the level of the lowest-cost 
all-market index funds.

Sector ETFs as a group are virtually certain to earn returns that 
fall well short of the returns delivered by the stock market.

There is abundant evidence that the most popular sector funds of the 
day are those that have recently enjoyed the most spectacular recent 
performance, and that such "after-the-fact" popularity is a recipe for 
unsuccessful investing.

A "double whammy": betting on hot sectors (emotions) and paying heavy 
costs (expenses) are sure to be hazardous to your wealth.

So we have a "double whammy": the near-inevitability of 
counterproductive market timing (emotions), as investors bet on 
sectors as they grow hot - and bet against them when they grow cold - 
combined with those heavy commissions and fees (expenses). Together, 
these two enemies of the equity investor are sure to be hazardous to 
your wealth, to say nothing of consuming giant blobs of your time that 
could be easily be used in more productive and enjoyable ways.

ETFs in general are clearly a dream come true for entrepreneurs, stock 
brokers, and fund manager. But is it too much to ask whether these 
index funds nouveau are an investor's dream come true? Do investors 
really benefit from being able to trade ETFs "all day long, in real 
time" Is less diversification better than more diversification? Is 
trend-following a winner's game, or a loser's game? Are ETFs truly 
low-costs when we add brokerage commissions to their expense ratios? 
Is buy-and-sell (often with great frequency) really a better strategy 
and buy-and-hold? Doesn't your own common sense give you the obvious 
answers to these questions?

If the classic index fund was designed to capitalize on the wisdom of 
long-term investing, aren't investors in specialized ETFs too 
often engaging in the folly of short-term speculation?

On the broad spectrum that lies between advancing the interests of the 
business and the interests of the clients, where do ETFs fit? If you 
are making a single large initial purchase in a large index ETF (e.g. 
total stock market index ETFs) at a low commission rate and holding 
them for the long term, you'll profit from their low expense ratios 
and may even enjoy a bit of extra tax efficiency. But if you trade 
them, you are defying the relentless rules of humble arithmetic that 
are the key to successful investing. 

If you like the idea of sector ETFs, use the appropriate one, don't 
trade them, and use them in the right way - sparingly, and only to 
diversify your portfolio.

I urge intelligent investors to stay the course with the proven 
strategy. While I can't say that classic indexing is the best strategy 
ever devised, your common sense should reassure you that the number of 
strategies that are worse is infinite.

If you believe in indexing, then you know that there is no free money. 
Ultimately, the push toward enhanced indexing is about enhancing the 
bottom line for managers. But it is important for us to keep our eyes 
on the ball and remember what makes indexing, well, indexing. Low 
fees, broad diversification, hold and hold. Don't believe the hype. 
Try to bear the market - in any manner - and you're likely to get 
beat, by about the cost of doing it (Jim Wiandt).

// chapter 16

The aggressive investor must have a considerable knowledge of security 
values. Enough, in fact, to warrant viewing his security operations as 
equivalent to a business enterprise (Benjamin Graham). It follows from 
this reasoning that the majority of security owners should elect the 
defensive classification.

The majority of investors should be satisfied with the reasonable good 
return obtainable from a defensive portfolio.

Because the majority of investors do not have the time, or the 
determination or the mental equipment to embark upon active investing as 
a quasi-business. They should therefore be satisfied with the 
reasonably good return obtainable from a defensive portfolio, and they 
should stoutly resist the recurrent temptation to increase this return 
by deviating into other paths (Bejamin Graham).

The Wall Street business fraternity is still feeling its way toward 
the high standards and standing of a profession (Benjamin Graham).

Wall street is "in business to make commissions, and the way to 
succeed in business is to give customers what they want, trying hard 
to make money in a field where they are condemned almost by 
mathematical law to lose".

Graham described his opinion of Wall Street as, "highly unfavorable, a 
Falstaffian joke that frequently degenerates into a madhouse, a huge 
laundry in which institutions take in large blocks of each other's 
washing".

Unsoundly managed funds can produce spectacular but largely 
illusionary profits for a while, followed inevitably by calamitous 
losses.

Graham's timeless lesson for the intelligent investor, as valid today 
as when he prescribed it in his first edition, is clear: "the real 
money in investment will have to be made - as most of it has been made 
in the past - not out of buying and selling but of owning and holding 
securities, receiving interest and dividends and increases in value".

The real money in investment will be made not out of buying and 
selling but of owning and holding securities.

It is Bejamin Graham's common sense, clear thinking, simplicity, and 
sense of financial history - along with his willingness to hold fast 
to the sound principles of long-term investing - that constitute his 
lasting legacy.

Fortunately for the typical investor, it is by no means necessary for 
his success that he bring the time-honored qualities of courage, 
knowledge, judgment and experience to bear upon his program - 
provided he limits his ambition to his capacity and confines his 
activities within the safe and narrow path of standard, defensive 
investment (Bejamin Graham). 

To achieve satisfactory investment results is easier than most people 
realize; to achieve superior results is harder than it looks (Benjamin 
Graham).

A low-cost index fund is the most sensible equity investment for the 
great majority of investor. My mentor, Ben Graham took this position 
many years ago and everything I have seen since convinces me of its 
truth (Warren Buffett).

The superiority of the index fund is based, not on the fleeting 
accomplishments of a tiny handful of funds (often achieved by money 
managers who had ceased managing the funds' portfolios years earlier), 
but on the permanent accomplishments of an all-market strategy where 
no money manager even enters the picture. Truly the classic index fund 
is the only mutual fund you can hold forever.

As John Maynard Keynes warned earlier in a different context, 
historical returns are of no value unless we can explain the source of 
those returns. In this context, let me reiterate the two basic sources 
of the superior returns achieved by the index fund: (1) the broadest 
possible diversification, eliminating individual stock risk, style 
risk, and manager risk, with only market risk remaining; and (2) the 
tiniest possible costs and minimal taxes. Together, they enable the 
index fund to provide the gross return earned in the stock market, 
minus a scintilla of cost.

The two sources of the superior returns of the index fund: (1) the 
broadest possible diversification; and (2) the tiniest possible costs.

Actively managed equity mutual funds as a group also provide, as 
common sense tells you, a gross return equal to the average return of 
the market. Today, holding almost 25 percent of all U.S. stocks, they 
trade largely with one another, enriching on balance only the brokers 
who receive the commissions on their vigorous trading of portfolio 
securities (and who also happen to sell their shares) and the 
management of companies that control them, as a result impoverishing, 
as it were, the net returns that the funds deliver to their investors.

Fund investment managers, distributors, marketers, administrators, 
brokers, and investment bankers have garnered staggering rewards for 
themselves. But the high prices they charge for their services, their 
high turnover policies and the attendant transaction costs, and the 
excessive taxes that their investors incur have siphoned off an 
enormous portion of the high real returns provided by the stock market 
in the past.

On the one one hand, it is as certain as the rising and setting of the 
sun that the large cost advantage that exists for the index fund will 
continue in the years ahead. Price competition among index funds will 
keep the expense ratios of the low-cost providers at a minuscule 
level. On the other hand, marketing competition and the drive for 
profits among the giant financial conglomerates that hold dominion 
over the fund industry will create strong pressure to maintain the 
high fee revenues generated by their actively managed funds where, 
tragically, investors too often ignore the impact of the baneful fees 
that they pay.

It is at least theoretically possible that the fund industry will at 
last turn from its present competition to raise prices in order to 
serve the interest of fund sellers to a new competition to cut prices 
and server the interest of fund buyers. But it's impossible to imagine 
that the huge gap between the all-in costs of the index fund and the 
all-in costs of the average equity fund - a gap that has now reached 
some 2.5 percentage points per year - will be significantly reduced. 
And even if the gap were slashed by one half - which will only happen 
(to use a wonderful barnyard metaphor for the inconceivable) when pigs 
finally whistle - the classic index fund would remain the investment 
of choice.

If investors could finally realize the error of their ways, then the 
negative impact of their counterproductive emotions could be 
substantially reduced in the years ahead. At some point, after all, 
smart investors ought to figure out for themselves that pouring money 
into hot funds in hot markets, and pulling money out of those funds 
when they turn cool, often in cold markets, is a loser's game.

Whatever the case, it seems set in stone that a substantial gap 
between the return earned by fund investors and the returns reported 
by the funds themselves will continue to exist. 

If you expect a substantial reversal of that trend, I would simply 
warn: don't count on it. 

Above all I'm confident about the long-term success that lies in store 
for sound investment in business through the classic index fund and 
those who invest in it, because virtually the entire case that I 
present is based on the "relentless rules of humble arithmetic".

Over the long term, stock market returns are created by real 
investment returns earned by real businesses - the annual dividend 
yield on publicly held U.S. corporations, plus their subsequent rate 
of earnings growth.

Over the short run, illusory speculative returns, caused by the impact 
of the change in the amount investors are willing to pay for each 
dollar of corporate earnings, can increase or decrease investment 
returns. But in the long run, the impact of speculative return washes 
out.

In investing, the winning strategy for reaping the rewards of 
capitalism depends on owning businesses, not trading stocks.

Individual businesses come and go. Given the rapid pace of 
technological change we face today, along with powerful new global 
competition, the failure rate of individual corporations is hardly 
likely to falter and may well increase.

The best protection for individual passive investors from the risks 
inherent in individual stocks is the broadest possible diversification.

Owning businesses in the aggregate through an all-market index fund 
achieves broad diversification and is the consummate risk-reduction 
strategy. (Broad economic risks to corporate earnings and dividends, 
however, cannot be diversified away).

As a group, all investors in the stock market earn its gross returns. 
When the market provides an 8 percent return, investors divide up 8 
percent (before taking account of costs). What else is new?

While investors earn the market's entire return, they do not capture 
the market's entire return. Rather, they capture the market's return 
only after the costs of financial intermediation are deducted - 
commissions, management fees, marketing costs, sales loads, 
administrative expenses, legal expenses and custodial fees, and so on. 
Unnecessary taxes simply enlarge the gap.

Gross market return, minus costs, equals net return for investors as a 
group (Remember the Gotrocks family example).

While all investors as a group must earn the market's net return, 
mutual fund investors, betrayed by their emotions (and by the fund 
industry) into serious errors in market timing and fund selection, 
have done much worse. While that gap may shrink, it is virtually 
inconceivable that it will be eliminated.

Gross market return, minus costs, minus timing and selection 
penalties, equals the net return earned by mutual fund investors as a 
group.

The two greatest enemies of the equity fund investor are expenses and 
emotions.

The index fund is the investment of choice because all the other 
choices have serious problems. These problems begin with the grossly 
excessive costs that overwhelm the ability of all but the ablest (or 
luckiest) fund managers to outpace the index fund. But they don't end 
there, for the mutual fund industry has created for itself other 
problems that are wholly counterproductive to the interests of the 
investors that it seeks to serve.

The mutual funds industry's very structure is a problem; 
managers control the funds that they serve under contract. Mutual funds 
themselves are required under the law to be governed by a board of 
directors that includes a majority of independent members who are 
unaffiliated with the management company. While common sense would 
suggest that the owners of the fund should be in the driver's seat of 
fund operations, they have been consigned to the rumble seat, 
essentially powerless and voiceless.

The overriding drive among mutual fund managers is for asset size, 
seemingly above all else, simply because piling assets on assets results 
in fees piled on fees. Yet the record shows that when small and midsize 
funds capitalize on their flexibility and succeed in generating 
exceptional returns, they draw immense cash flows and become giant funds 
that are muscle-bound and inflexible, limited to a return that parallels 
the stock market (before costs) - pinned to the earth, as it were, like 
gulliver.

Another problem of mutual funds is their worship of the Great God Market 
Share, which demands aggressive and costly marketing, promotional, 
and advertising efforts not only to build existing funds (easiest to do 
with those funds that have provided superior returns in the past), but 
to bring out new funds with each change in the market environment. 
And so we had "Go-Go" funds in the 1960s; "Nifty Fifty" (proven growth 
stocks) funds in the 1970s; "Government-Plus" funds in the 1980s; and 
"New Economy" funds (notably in technology, telecommunications, or 
internet stocks) in the late 19190s.

The mutual fund industry, finally, will be hoist on its own petard - an 
explosion created by the lethal mix of flawed governance structure 
with a failed industry mission. Its unremitting aim to build enormous 
assets through opportunistic marketing and "new product" adventurism, 
all lumped on top of costs that cannot possibly be recouped by 
superior performance.

In a brutish world peopled by smart, educated, experienced, and 
professional money managers who are competing with one another, 
managers as a group are inevitably consigned to average returns before 
costs; and after costs are deducted, they are destined to be losers. 
The arithmetic is unarguable.

"Remember, O Stranger, arithmetic is the first of the sciences". The 
mutual fund industry has forgotten that simple rule. Unless it 
changes, the industry will begin a long decline, condemned to its fate 
by its willingness, even its eagerness, to ignore the relentless rules 
of humble arithmetic.

As more and more investors come to recognize the common sense 
truth of simple arithmetic, the passively managed index funds is 
destined to become an even more formidable competitor to its actively 
managed rivals.

Invest in low-turnover, passively managed index funds and stay away 
from profit-driven investment management organizations (David Swensen).

The mutual fund industry is a colossal failure, resulting from its 
systematic exploitation of individual investors as funds extract 
enormous sums from investors in exchange for providing a shocking 
disservice. But excessive management fees take their toll, and 
(manager) profits dominate fiduciary responsibility (David Swensen).

Will costumers keep supporting the enormous overhead required to 
sustain ineffectual, unproductive stock picking across an array of 
thousands of individual funds devoted to every investing "style" and 
economic sector or regional subgroup that some marketing idiot can 
dream up? Not likely. A brutal shakeout is coming and one of its 
revelations will be that stock picking is a grossly overrated piece of 
the puzzle, that cost control is what distinguishes a competitive firm 
from an uncompetitive one (Holman Jenkins, Jr). 

Investors  are prone to over-confidence, and that overconfidence 
causes us to misinterpret information and let our emotions warp our 
judgment. When it comes to investing, "I don't try to be clever at 
all. The idea that I could see what no one else can is an illusion" I 
stick with index funds (Daniel Kahneman).

By periodically investing in an index fund, the know-nothing investor 
can actually out-perform most investment professionals (Warren Buffett). 

Paradoxically, when "dumb" money acknowledges its limitations, it 
ceases to be dumb (Warren Buffett).

Those index funds that are very low cost are investor-friendly by 
definition and are the best selection for most of those who wish to 
own equities (Warren Buffett).
 
Deep down, I remain absolutely confident that the vast majority of 
American families will be well served by owning their equity holding in 
an all-U.S. stock market index portfolio and holding their bonds in an 
all-U.S. bond-market index portfolio (Investors in high tax brackets, 
however, would hold a very low-cost quasi-index portfolio of 
high-grade intermediate-term municipal bonds).

While an index-driven strategy may not be the best investment strategy 
ever devised, the number of investment strategies that are worse is 
infinite. 

The rationale for a 100-percent-index-fund portfolio remains as solid 
as a rock. It's all about common sense.

When investing simplicity is the answer, complexity simply doesn't 
work.

We investors seem all-too-willing to ignore the verities described in 
this book. Instead of index funds, we opt for costly active funds and 
trade them to excess. Why? we are sold funds more often than we buy 
them. We have far too much self-confidence. We crave excitement. We 
succumb to the distraction that is the stock market. We fail to 
understand the arithmetic of investing, and the arithmetic of mutual 
funds.

I cannot tell you whether betting on a particular manager who pursues 
an active investment strategy will win or lose in the future. But I 
can guarantee that it hasn't worked very well in the past. 

There are lots of smart, engaging, purposeful money managers and 
financial advisers. And all of the activity that seems endemic to the 
investment business can be exciting and enticing. But after all is 
said and done, there are no surefire solutions for investment success 
- wealth without risk, if you will. It's just not a realistic 
expectation. 

Building an investment portfolio can be exciting, and trying our 
modern remedies for age-old problems lets you exercise your animal 
spirits. If you crave excitement, I would encourage you to do exactly 
that. Life is short. If you want to enjoy the fun, enjoy! But not with 
one penny more than 5 percent of your investment assets. That can be 
your funny money account.

At least 95 percent of your investments should be in your Serious 
Money account. That core of your program should consist of at least 50 
percent in index funds, up to 100 percent.

What about your Funny Money account? Enjoy the fun of gambling and the 
thrill of the chase, but not with your rent money and certainly not 
with college education funds for your children, nor with your 
retirement nest egg.

In your Serious Money Account, 50 percent to 95 percent in classic 
index funds. In your Funny Money Account, not one penny more than 5 
percent.

If you decide to have a Funny Money Account, be sure to measure your 
returns after one year, after five years, and after ten years. Then 
compare those returns with the returns you've earned in your Serious 
Money Account. I'm betting that your Serious Money will win in a 
landslide. If it does, you can then decide whether all that fun was 
adequate compensation for the potential wealth you've relinquished.

How, you ask, should you invest your Serious Money Account - that 50 
percent to 95 percent of your assets which you now depend on, or will 
one day depend one, for retirement? Use an index fund strategy.

Most investors, both institutional and individual, will find that the 
best way to own common stocks is through an index fund that charges 
minimal fees. Those following this path are sure to beat the net 
results (after fees and expenses) delivered by the great majority of 
investment professionals (Warren Buffett).

Although foreign stocks account for about one-half of the world's 
market capitalization, I recommend that they account for no more than 
about 20 percent of your own equity portfolio. By far the soundest way 
to acquire that participation is to hold (no surprise here!) a 
low-cost total international index fund that tracks the returns of all 
non-U.S. corporations.

The all-U.S.-bond-market portfolio remains the bond investment of 
choice. It holds investment-grade corporate bonds, mortgage-backed 
securities, and U.S. Treasurys, and has intermediate-term maturity in 
the range of 5 to 10 years.

Asset allocation is almost universally considered the most important 
determinant of your long-term investment return. Most of us will want 
more stocks when we're young, have relatively small assets at stake, 
many years to recoup losses, and do not depend on investment income. 
When we're older, we're likely to prefer more bonds. If we've planned 
intelligently and invested wisely, our asset accumulations have grown 
to substantial size; we have far less time on our side; and when we 
have retired we will rely on our portfolios to produce a steady and 
continuing stream of income. 

My favorite rule of thumb for asset allocation is (roughly) to hold a 
bond position equal to your age - 20 percent when you are 20, 70 
percent when you are 70, and so on - or maybe even your age minus 10 
percent. There are no hard-and-fast rules here (Most experts think my 
guidelines are too conservative. But I am conservative).

We know that we must start to invest at the earliest possible moment, 
and continue to put money away regularly from then on.

We know that investing entails risk. But we also know that not 
investing dooms us to financial failure.

We know the source of returns in the stock and bond markets, and 
that;s the beginning of wisdom.

We know that t eh risk of selecting specific securities, as well as 
the risk of selecting both managers and investment styles, can be 
eliminated by the total diversification offered by the classic index 
fund. Only market risk remains.

We know that costs matter, overpoweringly in the long run, and we know 
that we must minimize them (We also know that taxes matter, and that 
they, too, must be minimized).

We know that neither beating the market nor successfully timing the 
market can be generalized without self-contradiction. What may work 
for the few cannot work for the many.

We know that alternative asset classes such as hedge funds aren't 
really alternative, but simply pools of capital that invest - or 
over-invest or dis-invest - in the very stocks and bonds that comprise 
the portfolio of the typical investor.

Finally, we know that we don't know. We can never be certain how our 
world will look tomorrow, and we know far less about how it Will look 
a decade hence. But with intelligent asset allocation and sensible 
investment selections, you will be prepared for the inevitable bumps 
along the road and should glide right through them.

Our task remains: earning our fair share of whatever returns that our 
business enterprises are generous enough to provide in the years to 
come. That, to me, is the definition of investment success. The 
classic index fund is the only investment that guarantees the 
achievement of that goal.

Don't count yourself among the losers who will fail to outpace the 
stock market. You will be a winner if you follow the simple 
commonsense guidelines of owning an index fund and holding it for the 
years to come.

We all know how to lose weight and get in better shape: Eat less and 
exercise more, that is simple - but it is not easy. Investing is no 
different (Clifford S. Asness).

Some simple but not easy, advice for good investing and financial 
planning in general includes: diversify widely, keep costs low, 
re-balance in a disciplined fashion, spend less, save more and make less 
heroic assumptions about future returns (Clifford S. Asness).

Stick to the basics with discipline (Clifford S. Asness).

Beware of little Expenses; a small Leak will sink a great Ship 
(Clifford S. Asness).
 
Tis easy to see, hard to foresee (Clifford S. Asness).

Industry, Perseverance, and Frugality make Fortune yield 
(Clifford S. Asness).
