**************************************
# The pleasure of finding things out # 
--------------------------------------
##               Quotes             ##
**************************************

Science creates a power through its knowledge, a power to do things: 
You are able to do things after you know something scientifically. But 
science does not give instructions with this power as to how to do good 
against how to do evil.

I say, and I think you must all know from experience, that people-I 
mean the average person, the great majority of people, the enormous 
majority of people-are woefully, pitifully absolutely ignorant of the 
science of the world they live in, and they feel they can stay that way.

An interesting question of the relation of science to modern society is 
just that-why is it possible for people to stay so woefully ignorant 
and yet reasonable happy in modern society when so much knowledge is 
unavailable to them?

I think we should teach them wonders and that the purpose of knowledge 
is to appreciate wonders even more. And that the knowledge is just to 
put into correct framework the wonder that nature is.

Advertising, for example, is an example of a scientifically immoral 
description of the products. This immorality is so extensive that one 
gets so used to it in ordinary life, that you do not appreciate that it 
is a bad thing.

Today, for example, in the United States, the two political parties 
have decided to employ public relations men, that is, advertising men, 
who are trained in the necessary methods of telling the truth and lying 
in order to develop a product.

There is no learning without having to pose a question. And a question 
requires doubt.

Now the freedom to doubt, is absolutely essential for the development 
of science.  

OF all its many values, the greatest must be the freedom to doubt.

Scientific knowledge is an enabling power to do either good or bad-but 
it does not carry instructions on how to use it.

the Grand Adventure: The same thrill, the same awe and mystery, come 
again and again when we look at any problem deeply enough. With more 
knowledge comes deeper, more wonderful mystery, luring one on to 
penetrate deeper still. Never concerned that the answer may prove 
disappointing, but with pleasure and confidence we turn over each new 
stone to find un-imagined strangeness leading on to more wonderful 
questions and mysteries-certainly a grand adventure.

Hardly anyone can understand the importance of an idea, it is so 
remarkable. Except that, possibly, some children catch on. And when a 
child catches on to an idea like that , we have a scientist.

When a scientist doesn't know the answer to a problem, he is ignorant. 
When he has a hunch as to what the result is, he is uncertain. And when 
he is pretty darn sure what the result is going to be, he is in some 
doubt.

We have found it of paramount importance that in order to progress we 
must recognize the ignorance and leave room for doubt.

Scientific knowledge is a body of statements of varying degrees of 
certainty-some most unsure, some nearly sure, none absolute certain.

It is our responsibility as scientists, knowing the great progress and 
great value of a satisfactory philosophy of ignorance, the great 
progress that is the fruit of freedom of thought, to proclaim the value 
of this freedom, to teach how doubt is not to be feared but welcomed 
and discussed, and to demand this freedom as our duty to all coming 
generations.

For a successful technology, reality must take precedence over public 
relations, for nature cannot be fooled.

I finally figured out a way to test whether you have taught an idea or 
you have only taught a definition. Test it this way: You say, "Without 
using the new word which you have just learned, try to rephrase what 
you have just learned in you own language" (Richard Feynman).

I think it is very important-at least it was to me-that if you are 
going to teach people to make observations, you should show that 
something wonderful can come from them.

Science is the result of the discovery that it is worthwhile rechecking 
by new direct experience, and not necessarily trusting  the race 
experience from the past.

The world looks so different after learning science.

These are beautiful things, and the content of science is wonderfully 
full of them. They are very inspiring, and they can be used to inspire 
others.

Another of the qualities of science is that it teaches the value of 
rational thought, as well as the importance of freedom of thought; the 
positive results that come from doubting that the lessons are all true.

Science does not teach it; experience teaches it.

Science alone of all the subjects contains within itself the lesson of 
danger of belief in the infallibility of the greatest teachers of the 
preceding generation.

The things that's unusual about good scientists is that while they're 
doing whatever they're doing, they are not so sure of themselves as 
others usually are.

The lesson you learn as you grow older in physics is that what we can 
do is a very small fraction of what there is. Our theories are really 
very limited. 

I've learned how to live without knowing. I don't have to be sure I'm 
succeeding, and as I said before about science, I think my life is 
fuller because I realize that I don't know what I'm doing. I'm 
delighted with the width of the world!

I do know that everything is interesting if you go into it deeply 
enough.

Honesty in science is more rewarding than all the kudos and temporary 
successes in the world.

We really ought to look into the theories that don't work and science 
that isn't science.

Scientific Integrity: A principle of scientific thought that 
corresponds to a kind of utter honesty-a kind of leaning over backwards.

The idea is to try to give all of the information to help others to 
judge the value of your contribution; not just the information that 
leads to judgment in one particular direction or another.

Scientific Integrity: The first principle is that you must not fool 
yourself-and you are the easiest person to fool. So you have to be very 
careful about that. After you have not fooled yourself, it's easy not 
to fool other scientists. You just have to be honest in a conventional 
way after that.

You should not fool the layman when you are talking as a scientist. 

If you've made up your mind to test a theory, or you want to explain 
some idea, you should always decide to publish it whichever way it 
comes out. As good scientists, we must publish both kinds of results.

I wish to you, that you have the good luck to be somewhere where you 
are free to maintain your scientific integrity, and where you do not 
feel forced by a need to maintain your position in the organization, or 
financial support, or so on, to lose your integrity. May you have that 
freedom.

What goes on in different people's heads when they think they're doing 
the same thing-something as simple as counting-is different for 
different people.

If you have some reason for doing something that is very strong and you 
start working at it, you must look around every once in a while and 
find out if the original motives are still right.

In this age of specialization, men who thoroughly know one field are 
often incompetent to discuss another.

It is imperative in science to doubt; it is absolutely necessary, for 
progress in science, to have uncertainty as a fundamental part of you 
inner nature.

To make progress in understanding, we must remain modest and allow that 
we do not know.

Nothing is certain or proven beyond doubt. You investigate for 
curiosity, because it is unknown, not because you know the answer.

It is of great value to acknowledge ignorance. It is a fact that when 
we make decisions in our life, we don't necessarily know that we are 
making them correctly; we only think that we are doing the best we 
can-and that is what we should do.

Attitude of Uncertainty: I think that when we know that we actually do 
live in uncertainty, then we ought to admit it; it is of great value to 
realize that we do not know the answers to different questions. This 
attitude of mind-this attitude of uncertainty-is vital to the 
scientist, and it is this attitude of mind which the student must first 
acquire. It becomes a habit of thought. Once acquired, one cannot 
retreat from it anymore.

It is true that if you have a tyranny of ideas, so that you know 
exactly what has to be true, you act very decisively, and it looks 
good-for a while. But soon the ship is heading in the wrong direction, 
and no one can modify the direction anymore.
