********************************
# Mindfulness in plain English #
--------------------------------
##         Quotes             ##
********************************

Meditation: The practice of mindfulness.

Meditation is not easy. It takes time and it takes energy. It also 
takes grit, determination and discipline. 

Mediation takes gumption. It requires a host of personal qualities 
that we normally regard as unpleasant and like to avoid whenever 
possible. We can sum up all of these qualities in the American word 
gumption.

We categorize experiences. We try to stick each perception, every 
mental state into one of three holes: It is good, bad, or neutral. 
Then, according to which box we stick it in, we perceive with a set of 
fixed habitual mental responses. 

If a particular perception has been labeled "good" we try to freeze 
time right there. We grab onto that particular thought, fondle it, 
hold it, and we try to keep it from scaping. When that does not work, 
we go all-out in an effort to repeat the experience that caused the 
thought. We can call this mental habit "Grasping."

When we perceive something "bad," we try to push it away. We try to 
deny it, reject it, and get rid of it any way we can. We fight against 
our own experience. We can call this mental habit "rejecting."

Between the "grasping" and "rejecting" mental habits lies the 
"neutral" box. Here we place the experiences that are neither good nor 
bad. They are tepid, neutral, uninteresting. We pack experience away 
in the neutral box so that we can ignore it and thus return our 
attention to where the action is, namely, our endless round of desire 
and aversion. So this "neutral" category gets robbed of its fair share 
of our attention. We can call this mental habit "ignoring."

The direct result of our unhealthy mental habits (i.e.grasping, 
rejecting and ignoring) is a perpetual treadmill race to nowhere, 
endlessly pounding after pleasure, endlessly fleeing from pain, and 
endlessly ignoring 90 percent of our experience. Then we wonder why 
life tastes so flat. In the final analysis this system does not work.

Happiness and peace are really the prime issues in human existence 
(i.e. after our normal survival needs). That is what all of us are 
seeking. 

"Feel good": Nnow there is the real item. What we really seek is not 
the surface goals; those are just means to an end. What we are really 
after is the feeling of relief that comes when the drive is satisfied. 
Relief, relaxation, and an end to the tension. Peace, hapiness - no 
more yearning.

You can not ever get everything you want. It is impossible. Luckily, 
there is another option. You can learn to control your mind, to step 
outside of the endless cycle of desire and aversion. You can learn not 
to want what you want, to recognize desires but not to be controlled 
by them. 

Mindfulness does not mean that you lie down on the road and invite 
everybody to walk all over you. It means that you continue to live a 
very normal-looking life, but live from a whole new viewpoint. You do 
the things a person must do, but you are free from that obsesive, 
compulsive drivenness of your own desires. i.e. You want something, but 
you don't need to chase after it. You fear something, but you don't 
need to stand there quaking in your boots. This sort of mental 
cultivation is very difficult. It takes years.

We are just beginning to realize that we have overdeveloped the 
material aspects of existence at the expense of the deeper emotional 
and spiritual aspects, and we are paying a price for that error.

You can't make radical changes in the pattern of your life until you 
begin to see yourself exactly as you are now. As soon as you do that, 
changes will flow naturally. You don't have to force anything, 
struggle, or obey rules dictated to you by some authority. It is 
automatic; you just change.

You have to see who you are and how you are without illusion, 
judgement, or resistance of any kind. You have to see your place in 
society and your function as a social being. You have to see your 
duties and obligations to your fellow human beings, and above all, 
your responsibility to yourself as an individual living with other 
individuals. Mental cultivation is a great way to help you achieve 
this sort of understanding along with serene hapiness.

A well-disciplined mind brings hapiness.

Meditation is intended to purify the mind. It cleanses the thought 
process of what can be called psychic irritants, things like greed, 
hatred and jealousy, which keep you snarled up in emotional bondage. 
Mediatation brings the mind to a state of tranquility and awareness, a 
state of concentration and insight.

It is one thing to obey the law because you know the penalties and 
fear the consequences; it is something else entirely to obey the law 
because you understand the reasons and have cleansed yourself from the 
hatred that would make you kill.

Civilization changes a person on the outside. Meditation softens a 
person from within, through and through.

Meditation is called the Great Teacher. It is the cleansing element 
that works slowly but surely, through understanding. The greater 
your understanding, the more flexible and tolerant, the more 
compassionate you can be.

When you understand others, you are ready to forgive and forget.

You understand others because you deeply understand yourself. When you 
have learned compassion for yourself, compassion for others is 
automatic.

An accomplished meditator has achieved a profound understanding of 
life, and he or she inevitably relates to the world with a deep and 
uncritical love.

Meditation is a lot like cultivating a new land. To make a field out 
of a forest, first you have to clear the tress and pull out the 
stumps. Then you fill the soil and fertilize it, sow your seed, and 
harvest your crops. To cultivate your mind, first you have to clear 
out the various irritants that are in the way - pull them right out by 
the root so that they won't grow back. Then you fertilize: you pump 
energy and discipline into the mental soil. Then you sow the seed, and 
harvest your crops of faith, morality, mindfulness, and wisdom.

Faith and morality have a special meaning in this context. Budhism 
does not advocate faith in the sense of believing something because it 
is written in a book, attributed to a prophet, or taught to you by 
some authority figure. 

The meaning of faith in budhism is closer to confidence. It is knowing 
that something is true because you have seen it work, because you have 
observed within yourself.

Morality in budhism is not ritualistic obedience to a code of behavior 
imposed by an external authority. It is rather a healthy habit pattern 
that you have consciously and voluntarily chosen to impose upon 
yourself because you recognize it is superior than your present 
behavior.

The purpose of meditation is personal transformation.

Meditation changes your character by a process of sensitization, by 
making you deeply aware of your own thoughts, words, and deeds. 

Through meditation your mind becomes still and calm. And your life 
smoothes out. 

Meditation, properly performed, prepares you to meet the ups and downs 
of existence. It reduces your tension, fear and worry.

Mediation sharpens your concentration and your thinking power. Then, 
piece by piece, your own subconscious motives and mechanics become 
clear to you. Your intuition sharpens. The precision of your thought 
increases and gradually you come to a direct knowledge of things as 
they really are, without prejudice and without illusion.

Chapter 2.
