*****************************************************************
#                       Take on the Street                      #
# What Wall Street and Corporate America Don't Want You to Know # 
-----------------------------------------------------------------
##                           Quotes                            ##
*****************************************************************

I learned that when it comes to protecting investors, no political party 
has an edge over the conscience of an honest public servant.

From my twelve years as chairman of the American Stock Exchange, I 
knew that investors were almost totally in the dark about how the 
stock markets worked. Collusive practices among the Nasdaq dealers 
were costing investors billions of dollars a year.

The farmer in Des Moines, the teacher in Coral Gables, and the truck 
driver in Syracuse all have a common interest in full disclosure, 
reliable numbers, clearly written documents, and a vigilant regulatory 
system. But no regulator can provide total protection against fraud. 
No law has been devised to anticipate the deceptions and distortions 
that are inevitable in markets fueled by hype and hope. America's 
markets operate by a set of rules that are half written and half 
custom. That makes the individual's responsibility to discern hidden 
motivations and conflicts o interest as important as any law or 
regulation.

Many brokers are paid a commission, or a service fee on evry 
transaction in accounts they manage. They want you to buy stocks you 
don't own and sell the ones you do, because that's how they make money 
for themselves and their firms. They earn commissions even when you 
lose money.

The broker is not your friend. He's more like a doctor who charges 
patients on how often they change medicines. An he gets paid far more 
for the stuff the house is promoting than the stuff that will make you 
better. (Warren Buffett)

Your broker may recommend that you buy shares with money borrowed from 
his firm at a fixed interest rate and using your shares as 
collateral. He may argue that trading stocks "on margin" lets you use 
the power of leverage to amplify your stock-picking prowess, the way 
professionals do. Tell your broker you are not interested. Margin 
borrowing is very risky and, for an individual investor like you, 
should be avoided at all costs.

Margin simply means buying assets with borrowed money. Such loans are 
highly profitable to the brokerage firm. They are marketed on the 
premise that if you invest more without fully paying for the 
securities, you can lift your returns beyond what you'd otherwise get. 
Continuously buying on credit is a recipe for wealth destruction, 
be careful.

How serious are the conflicts between broker and investor? Serious 
enough that a former top official of a major brokerage firm confessed 
to me privately that he would not send his mother to a full-service 
broker.

If you have less than $50,000 to invest, you don't need a broker. The 
strategy that makes the most sense is investing in low-cost mutual 
funds, especially index funds that match the performance of a stock 
index. You could start off with a fund that follows the Wilshire 5000, 
which includes virtually all U.S. stocks, or the Standard & Poor's 500 
which mimics that shares of 500 large U.S. companies.

If you have more than $50,000 to invest, you should fire your broker 
and find an investment adviser. Brokerage firms would like you to 
think that they perform the same functions as investment advisers. 
Many brokers call themselves "financial consultants" or "financial 
advisers." But they're not the same as independent investment advisers.

Investment advice is not a highly regulated business. A loose 
patchwork of federal and state agencies oversees the industry. It's 
up to you to protect yourself by checking and adviser's registration 
and disciplinary records.
 
If you choose to invest through a broker, don't let him do onything 
until you have a chance to meet face-to-face. Try to establish a 
rapport, and keep in constant touch.

As an investor, you have responsibilities. The more you understand 
these, the more rewarding your investment experience will be.

Remember: trust your own instincts. No expert, stock market guru, or 
financial columnist knows what you should invest in better than you.

Maybe the fund industry should work less on image creation and more on 
making sure it has done everything possible to safeguard investors' 
money and boost their returns.

High Fees Strangle Returns: The deadliest sin of all is the high cost 
of owning some mutual funds.

The bite taken out of your investment by fees often determines whether 
you gain or losses.

When was the last time you thought about the mutual fund fees you pay? 
Most people don't give them even a passing thought. That's good for 
the industry, which does an exemplary job touting the benefits of 
mutual funds, but prefers to gloss over what it costs you each year.

Most actively managed funds never do as well as their benchmark.

A mutual fund's past performance, which is the first feature that 
investors consider when choosing a fund, doesn't predict future 
performance.

The mutual fund industry irresponsibly promotes this "culture of 
performance," even though it knows perfectly well that it misleads 
investors. When it comes to mutual funds, the past is not prologue.

If funds are in the business of helping their customers make money, 
why would they mislead them, you might ask? The answer is that fund 
managers are in a cutthroat business.

The problem with this system is that the rankings, which by necessity 
are based on past performance, do not tell you much of anything about 
a fund's future performance. It's like looking in the rearview mirror 
to see the road ahead. Studies have shown that if you take the top 10 
percent of fund in any year, four out of five of them will not be in 
the top 10 percent a year later.

There  are more important considerations than past performance. Fees 
and taxes. It's also crucial to know a fund's managerial experience.

You should not expect a fund whose strategy has suddenly switched to 
repeat last year's results.

Most fund manager don't practice what they preach. Most say they 
believe in the merits of long-term investing. They also lecture their 
own shareholders to stay invested in their funds for the long term, 
preferably ten to twenty years. But alas, the typical fund manager 
sells every stock in their portfolio at least once a year. If a 
company misses its quarterly estimate, out goes the stock, even if the 
long-term prospects are good.

All this trashing around of stocks hits investors with higher 
transaction costs and higher taxes, but no observable improvement in 
fund performance (John C. Bogle).

Too many fund managers also buy stocks when they think the market is 
about to move up and sell when they believe the market is getting 
ready to swoon. On other words, they try to time the market, a 
strategy most experts warn is a foolish attempt at achieving the 
impossible. No one is smart enough to time the market's ups and downs.

Why should I invest in a mutual fund at all? If you are the type of 
person who has the discipline and the time to pick stocks on your own, 
then you should do so. But if, like most people, you don't have the 
time to understand what drives markets and aren't inclined to read 
numerous corporate earnings statements, then mutual funds are a safer, 
more convenient investment.

But be a samrt mutual fund investor. Pay attention to fees and 
expenses. Pick a no-load fund that charges no 12b-1 fees and has an 
expense ratio below 1 percent.

If your head is sipinning from all of the investment alternatives (and 
the marketing hogwash), take the easiest and safest route and pick a 
low-cost index fund.

Whether it's a stock or a bond fund, always look for no-load funds 
that charge low fees.

Avoid sector funds, such as high-tect or health care funds. Brokerage 
firms and fund companies sometimes push hot stock sectors. But just 
like the turbo-charged Internet funds, "Hot stock funds" tend to hit 
home runs one year and strike out the next.

Avoid the cult of personality. Fund companies are attracting investors 
by creating funds around hotshot money managers, but most of them will 
flame out in a year or two.

Read the prospectus. Before you invest, make sure the stellar result 
of a fund aren't the handiwork of a longtime manager who has just 
resigned, or were pumped up like an athlete on steroids by well-timed 
initial public offering purchases.

Take the time to ask whether the fund's sponsor has had any run-ins 
with the SEC. If it has, you may want to stay clear. The organization 
may care more about the hype than acting in investors' best interests.

Don't chase fads. Behavioral researchers have noticed that investors 
tend to flock to funds that show superior results. But studies show 
that this year's high-flier won't be the top performer next year. When 
everybody else is signing up, remember: past performance does not 
guarantee future results.

In an industry where trust is paramount, loss of faith among investors 
can't be restored by simply mounting a savvy public relations 
campaign. Reputation matters.

Until Wall Street firms agree to a complete separation of research and 
investment banking, the issue will remain with us.

Analysts have always had to wrestle with conflicts of interest. 
Naturally, they all want to be considered experts in their field, and 
so over time they get to know intimately the companies they are 
assessing. Their interests become intertwined. But the good ones - and 
there are many - recognize this occupational hazard and word hard not 
to let their relationship with corporate management blind them.

If analysts do their job well, investors can prosper by buying 
shares in the companies analysts recommend and shunning the ones they 
say to avoid. When consumers buy a car or a refrigerator, they check 
"Consumer Reports". When they buy a house, they have it inspected. But 
when they buy a stock, to whom do they turn if analysts are shills of 
corporations?

Analysts usually specialize in a sector of the economy, such as 
telecommunications or autos, and write reports on the companies in 
that sector. Like peeling an onion, they uncover layer upon layer of 
information about where a company has been, and where it is likely to 
go. They review financial performance, the management team, product 
strength, and market-share position. They also assess the economic 
climate in which the company operates, and its ability to sell more 
products or services and increase profits. Analysts use all this 
information to try to predict the company's future - and its share 
price - so that investors know when to buy, hold, or sell.

What most individual investors don't understand is that, 
statistically, only half of all stocks can perform better than the 
median, unless you live in Lake Wobegon, where all companies are above 
average. Not since the late 1980s have at least half of all analyst 
recommendations been a sell.

Analysts can't serve two masters, so they joke that they work 75 
percent of their time for investors and 75 percent of their time for 
corporate clients. But unbeknown to most small investors, the 
corporate client has won out.

Less-than-honest analisys has one other negative effect. It distorts 
the markets by shifting capital away from worthy companies to those 
able to purchase positive research reports with their investment 
banking dollars. This distortion, over time, could undermine the 
efficient allocation of capital, which is the reason we have stock 
markets in the first place.

The biggest obstacle to objective research is that firms are seeking 
lucrative corporate finance deals from companies that their analysts 
are following. Such deals pay analysts far more than they could earn 
from research alone.

It is important to understand that research isn't free. and that 
individuals will pay, one way or another. You may never have to write 
a check for research, but there is a hidden cost. The loyalty that 
analysts show towards corporate clients, and the resulting lack of 
objectivity in their recommendations, is one such cost.

The first rule of thumb is that an analyst's recommendation should 
never be the deciding factor in whether you buy or sell a stock.

Never buy a stock based solely on an analyst's recommendation.

Ask lots of questions. You should not be influenced by an analyst's 
stock recommendation unless you understand why the analyst favors it.

If an analyst recommends that you buy shares in a company whose stock 
offering was managed by his firm, consider that "buy" the same way you 
would an advertisement - with a heavy dose of skepticism.

// chapter 4.


